Okay,
in this demonstration we'll work with TCP/IP
network configuration in Windows 10.
As I mentioned, or as I started in the slide portion a few minutes ago,
down here in your notification area you can hover over your
Wi-Fi and/or your wired icons to get a very terse summary of
your network connection names, and whether or not you have internet access.
If you left-click, it brings up a menu where you can make a selection,
and if you make a selection like I just did,
it takes us into Network & Internet, Ethernet or Wi-Fi,
depending upon what you have going.
I'm going to minimize the settings window,
though, because you can use Windows R or right-click the Start button,
Run.
Ncpa.
cpl, that's the filename for the Network Connections Control Panel,
and it's a muscle memory thing that many students have
thanked me for turning them onto, so I wanted to make sure you had that info.
And if you double left-click a connection like my internal Ethernet connection,
it says No network access at all.
We can see down below activity, Sent and Received,
the link speed, how long it's been enabled or disabled.
You can disable a network connection here.
Notice that that has the UAC shield.
You can also right-click the connection to disable it, get its status, etc.
But, anyway,
on the Status details page this gives you a text run of
information like your IP address configuration,
the physical address of the network interface,
the so-called media access control, or MAC address.
If you want to make changes, though,
what you'll want to get in the habit of is right-clicking
on the icon and selecting Properties.
This brings up a Properties sheet that really hasn't changed in many,
many, many years.
You can configure the network interface up above and the protocols down below.
Now there's lots of components here.
There's the Client component, that always needs to be on,
File and Printer Sharing needs to be on in a business environment,
Quality of Service, or QoS Packet Scheduler,
we can get into a discussion on that at another time.
The main thing I want to show you are the entries for TCP/IP v4 and v6.
We're going to focus on v4.
If we double left-click that,
it brings out the specific Properties sheet for that component.
So walking it back, we have our Ethernet adapter,
we have the TCP/IPv4 enabled, and then we have the Properties for it.
And the options are to use DHCP automatic address assignment,
or static, and you'll notice that I've done static here.
The downside to static is that human error,
I could mistype something and cause problems.
The upside is that I know that this machine will always be at 10.
0.
2/24.
I've also pointed to a specific DNS server in my environment.
I don't need a router.
This is a single subnet network, so that's why default gateway is empty, okay?
So those are the basics of configuring TCP/IP.
Let me right-click my External.
I believe this one is DHCP, so I'll double left-click TCP v4. Yep, sure enough, obtain an IP address automatically.